---
Title: ClearSpend
Image: #
Category: Startup
---

# ClearSpend
clearspend-feature.jpg
 Freelance product work

## The Ask
> Build a "spend control and expense management solution for small businesses" from the ground up.

I am proud of this product and my team's progress over 8 months.
Starting in 2021, we rapidly built a proof of concept by Christmas, followed by a launch around February.
Working to iteratively build out ClearSpend while keeping in sync with multiple teams from marketing, branding, mobile product, and leadership. While laying the groundwork for the birth of a design system.

## Dashboard

clearspend-dashboard.jpg

> ClearSpend wanted to design its products to work with minimal human participation. Allowing a manager or employee access to the needed 10,000ft view of the Allocations (Budgets) they manage.

Noticeable work relevant to this portfolio pertains to how the data graph is locked up. Small details to make the cards feel separate from the background and visually group relevant information together.
A conscious effort went into the small things like how to keep lines of data scannable but separated. A chunk of time working on balancing screen width to information density.

Future thinking into small things like how the view should be framed with the menu and its role with Multi Accounts.

## **Allocations (Budgets) Management**

clearspend-allocations.jpg

> Budgets with ClearSpend work like the 'CSS box model.' You have a parent budget funding its child budgets. Allowing a Transparent flow of money from the top down.[^]

Working with Leadership, Kyle identified dangers to having an open-ended parent/child structure with no limitations. This structure could potentially harm our goal of lowering human participation and keeping the product easy to understand. Over time we developed how permissions worked and mindfully applied limitations that were tuned to ClearSpends target launch audience, like budgets can only go 5 levels deep.

Kyle worked to balance out the main menu, the Allocations (Budget) menu, and the mini dashboard on the UI side. Kyle purposely uses elements like color, borders, and rounded corners to highlight separation and help focus a user's attention on the critical details.

## **Side Panel Pattern**

clearspend-sidepannel.jpg

> Recycle our best ideas to make consistent UI patterns across the product.

A critical happy path relevant to every view in the product is where a user needs to edit, add, or remove intricate details or data entries.

Kyle took steps to consolidate the various ways ClearSpend allowed a user to edit bite-sized chunks of data. Including creating a framework to make future panels easy to design and prototype.

**Bonus info**
ClearSpend has a green accessibility issue. Kyle did work to remix and champion complementary colors to work with the Brand Uranium Green, which is so hard to read against a white background. Originally ClearSpend, for months, was a lovely electric Blue, and the shift created the challenge and opportunity to rethink the color pallets given to the product team.

## Multi Account: Client Management

clearspend-multiaccount.jpg

> Minimal design and engineering work for a more significant Client impact.

The concept of This view leans into layering important info that relates to items on this screen and the previous one before it.
Selecting Craig's Automotive on the Clients has their financials slide in with the side menu appearing alongside.

This Dashboard is an earlier component of the main Dashboard. The team brought it back here to iterate on with the intent through research to focus on metrics that an accountant would find more valuable than a business manager.

====

Kyle you need to rewrite all content here to tie it together. Add your research and notes.