---
Title: Redacted Upsell
Image: #
Category: Purchase Funnel
---

# redacted Upsell
## The Ask

> Redacted, a product owned by redacted Digital, has a well-established subscription model called redacted redacted.

The redacted tier is focused on an RV owner's needs. Making the redacted product complement RV trip planning with the other RV-friendly apps and features redacted Digital offers with their separate subscription.
This project seeks to offer an upsell "redacted" to redacted users who travel in an RV without cannibalizing the current redacted subscription flow.

---

## The Deliverable

> Illustrations & Copy from the marketing and content teams have resulted in a beautiful world of collaboration to fine-tune, and finally, A/B, the most critical part of the redacted source of income.
> 

These deliverables were built around future thinking and how the subscription tiers will continue to work over the next 5 years. Fexible enough to continue balancing the hard work and effort done by the marketing, content, and product teams. 

---

## redacted Flow

> Product has been developing these flows over the last 5 years by leaning into the established happy paths for subscriptions. The updated redacted flow is meant to extend the system already in place.

While planning a trip, a traveler attempts to use a feature flagged as redacted only. That triggers our paywall with the option to swipe through and learn more about that specific redacted feature that started the paywall. Or jump right in with a redacted subscription.
The Primary Key metric we are looking to move is the subscription numbers, not free trials, to redacted. There is some concern that a 7-day free trial could gut redacted numbers as redacted offers value during a trip's planning and travel phases. While redacted primarily provides most of its value upfront with trip planning.

---

## redactedUpsell Funnel

> Extending the redacted flow logic, new triggers have been created for any user who is not redacted

Focusing on the RV features in redacted, redacted should extend what is offered in redacted, providing tools and discounts for our RV users. The most significant task was planning how more features and triggers should be added over time. This includes keeping UI constraints consistent and flexible between all seven redacted Platforms. Defining the design language Marketing and Content teams can utilize, pushing their own Key results within our small group.